Android support (#136)
invertase/react-native-apple-authentication: README.md

---

A well typed React Native library providing support for Apple Authentication on iOS and Android, including support for all `AppleButton` variants.

![apple-auth](https://static.invertase.io/assets/apple-auth.png)

## Prerequisites to using this library

The `@invertase/react-native-apple-authentication` library will not work if you do not ensure the following:

- You are using React Native version `0.60` or higher.

- (iOS only) You have setup react-native iOS development environment on your machine (Will only work on Mac). If not, please follow the official React Native documentation for getting started: [React Native getting started documentation](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/getting-started).

> - (iOS only) You are using Xcode version `11` or higher. This will allow you to develop using iOS version `13`, the only version possible for authenticating with Apple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (iOS only) You are using Xcode version `11` or higher. This will allow you to develop using iOS version `13` and higher, when the APIs for Sign In with Apple became available.
```

- **Once you're sure you've met the above, please follow our [Initial development environment setup](docs/INITIAL_SETUP.md) guide.**

## Version 2.0.0 breaking changes

> Version 2 with Android support introduces a few breaking changes with how methods are accessed. If you're upgrading from 1.x, check out the [Migration Guide](docs/MIGRATION.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version 2 added Android support and introduced a few breaking changes with how methods are accessed. Please see the [Migration Guide](docs/MIGRATION.md).
```

## Installation

```bash
yarn add @invertase/react-native-apple-authentication

(cd ios && pod install)
```

You will not have to manually link this module as it supports React Native auto-linking.

## Usage

Below are simple steps to help you get up and running. The implementation differs between iOS an Android, so if you're having trouble, be sure to look through the docs. Please skip and head to the full code examples noted below if you prefer to see a more complete implementation:

- [React Hooks example (iOS)](example/app.ios.js)
- [React Class example (iOS)](example/classVersion.js)
- [React Hooks example (Android)](example/app.android.js)
- If you're authenticating users via `React Native Firebase`; see our [Firebase guide](docs/FIREBASE.md)

> - For Android support, a couple extra steps are required on your account. Checkout [our guide](docs/ANDROID_EXTRA.md) for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For Android support, a couple extra steps are required on your Apple developer account. Checkout [our guide](docs/ANDROID_EXTRA.md) for more info.
```

So it is recommended when logging out to just clear all data you have from a user, collected during `AppleAuthRequestOperation.LOGIN`.

### Android

#### 1. Initial set-up
Make sure to correctly configure your Apple developer account to allow for proper authentication on Android. You can checkout [our guide](docs/ANDROID_EXTRA.md) for more info.
```js
// App.js

import React from 'react';
import { View } from 'react-native';
import { AppleButton } from '@invertase/react-native-apple-authentication';

async function onAppleButtonPress() {

}

function App() {
  return (
    <View>
      <AppleButton
        buttonStyle={AppleButton.Style.WHITE}
        buttonType={AppleButton.Type.SIGN_IN}
        onPress={() => onAppleButtonPress()}
      />
    </View>
  );
}
```

#### 2. Implement the login process
```js
// App.js

import { appleAuthAndroid } from '@invertase/react-native-apple-authentication';

async function onAppleButtonPress() {
  // configure the request
  appleAuthAndroid.configure({
    clientId: 'Client id', // Registered with Apple as a Service ID

>     redirectUri: 'https://example.com/auth/callback',

Reviewer: What does that redirectUri do? is this (for example - potentially a firebase auth end point? or cloud function that runs? or some other integration?) - the more prescriptive the code + docs, the fewer confused developers will file issues later :sweat_smile:

Author: Clarified this across the docs and example app. I also added a troubleshooting step to the readme which hopefully covers the most common `clientId` mistakes.

    responseType: appleAuthAndroid.ResponseType.ALL,
    scope: appleAuthAndroid.Scope.ALL,

>     nonce: 'Random nonce value, will be SHA256 hashed before sending to Apple',

Reviewer: I think this should have be concrete

I use and recommend https://github.com/LinusU/react-native-get-random-values so then the example would be to create a typed array before configure and populate with getRandomValues then use it for the nonce?

- [AppleRealUserStatus](docs/enums/_lib_index_d_.applerealuserstatus.md)
- [AppleRequestOperation](docs/enums/_lib_index_d_.applerequestoperation.md)
- [AppleRequestScope](docs/enums/_lib_index_d_.applerequestscope.md)

### Android Interfaces
- [appleAuthAndroid module](docs/modules/_lib_index_d_.md#98)
- [AndroidConfig](docs/interfaces/_lib_index_d_.androidconfig.md)
- [AndroidSigninResponse](docs/interfaces/_lib_index_d_.androidsigninresponse.md)
- [AndroidError](docs/modules/_lib_index_d_.md#androiderror.md)

### Android Enumerations
- [AndroidResponseType](docs/enums/_lib_index_d_.androidresponsetype.md)
- [AndroidScope](docs/enums/_lib_index_d_.androidscope.md)

### FAQs

1. Why does `full name` and `email` return `null`?
   - Apple only returns the `full name` and `email` on the first login, it will return `null` on the succeeding login so you need to save those data.
   - For testing purposes, to be receive these again, go to your device settings; `Settings > Apple ID, iCloud, iTunes & App Store > Password & Security > Apps Using Your Apple ID`, tap on your app and tap `Stop Using Apple ID`. You can now sign-in again and you'll receive the `full name` and `email.

>    - Keep in mind you can always access the email server-side by inspecting the `id_token` returned from Apple when verifying the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Keep in mind you can always access the `email` property server-side by inspecting the `id_token` returned from Apple when verifying the user.
```
